We have established that each character
in a string gets a particular
number kind of assigned to it,
either to the letter itself or
to kind of where that letter
begins in the string.
And there is a name in JavaScript and
in computer science for
the numbers assigned to
positions of these characters.
Does anybody know the word for
that, a number given to a position?
Yeah.
>> It's an array.
>> Okay, so arrays also have
these numbers assigned to them.
We're gonna talk about
arrays a little bit later.
So this is something that strings and
arrays have in common,
is the things inside of
them each get a number.
And those numbers,
just as a point of trivia, are called?
>> In chat, they're saying index.
>> Index, exactly, so the number
given to each thing inside of a more
complex thing [LAUGH] when that thing
is ordered is called an index, and
plural indices, right?
So we often talk about, what is the index
of a particular character in a string?
Or, as we're gonna see later,
what is the index of a particular
element or value within an array?
So when we want to work with strings,
we use these indices a lot.
If we want to ask JavaScript,
JavaScript, dear JavaScript,
please tell me, in this string ALOHA,
what is the first character?
I can do that using this
magical invocation here,
square brackets at the end of the string
with a number inside of them.
Where that number represents
an index of the character that I
am asking JavaScript for.
So in this case, if I asked JavaScript,
what is the character at index 0?
In other words, if I have the string
ALOHA and then in square brackets [0],
it's asking,
what is the first character in the string?
And so this is going to give me,
any guesses?
>> A
>> A, so we said that in our,
We said that in our strings, the first
character, although it sounds sort
of counterintuitive if you're
not used to counting from 0.
As humans, we often start counting at 1.
In JavaScript and
in lots of other programming languages,
we start counting at 0.
So 0 is the first character,
the character at index 0.
Okay, what if we wanna ask it,
what is the third character in the string?
Well, again,
because we started at index 0,
we need to kind of always be mentally
subtracting 1 from the order,
the number of things into
the string that we're looking for.
So in this case,
if we're asking the third character,
that's gonna be the character at index 2.
So again, we have A is at index 0,
L is at index 1, O is at index 2.
So if I type in ALOHA[2],
I expect to get and I do get O.
Yeah, we're all on board,
a surfboard, in this case, [SOUND].
Okay, [LAUGH] all right, so
how do I ask JavaScript,
what is the index of a specific
character in the string?
Let's say I wanna find out,
what is the index of the L?
Well, I have a nice little spell,
I can use indexOf, it's handy.
Sometimes things are named in a way
that we expect, sometimes they are not.
In this case,
they're named in a way that we expect.
So I can ask JavaScript
of a particular string.
I can do .indexOf, and
then in parentheses give it
the character that I'm looking for,
and it will tell me the index
where that character appears.
So let's try it out.
What do you think is going to be
the value of "ALOHA".indexOf("L")?
>> 1.
>> We would expect 1, and it is indeed 1.
Beautiful, now, what about this one,
"ALOHA" .indexOf("A").
What do you think it's gonna be?
>> 0.
>> 0 is a good contender.
We do have an A at index 0 as we saw
before, cuz we asked it ALOHA(0).
We know that that's A,
but there's also an A at the end of
the string, which would be index?
>> 4.
>> 4, exactly, so which one?
>> It takes the average.
>> [LAUGH] The average, maybe.
Perhaps, let's find out.
So the way we can find out, as always, is
by tinkering with things in our console,
and it indeed returns 0.
So indexOf is going to find with the first
thing like this that I'm looking for.
And we're gonna see indexOf
works on arrays too, so
we're gonna look at that later.
But in strings,
it's going to return the index of
the first appearance of this
character in the string.
So keep in mind that if you have
multiple of the same character,
you're only gonna find
the first one with indexOf.
Now, what if I ask it to tell
me the index of a character
that's not in the string, like Q?
For example,
if I ask "ALOHA".indexOf("Q").
>> Null.
>> Maybe it's gonna be null.
That might make sense.
Maybe it's gonna be, Dear Anjana,
you don't know what you're talking about.
Stop asking me for
stuff that doesn't exist, unlikely,
cuz how does it know my name?
Tracking, no, just kidding.
[LAUGH] But because it's JavaScript,
sometimes stuff is interesting and
this is one of those cases.
So let's find out.
Let's just do it,
let's find out what it does.
-1, so
this is just kind of a convention in
JavaScript that when I ask for
the index of a character or
an element that doesn't exist in
the string, I'm gonna get a -1.
That indicates that this character
is not present in the string.
And later in life, in our JavaScript
lives, we're going to see how we
could use that information to make
certain decisions or what have you.
But basically, if you get a negative
number, -1 is the only negative number
you could get, as far as I know, [LAUGH]
that means this string does not appear.
It's outside of the string.
It's in the negative world.
Yes, question.
>> Is this case sensitive?
>> Great question.
Is this case sensitive?
Let's find out.
So for example,
instead of asking "ALOHA".indexOf("A") ,or
let's use L cuz there's only one of them.
Let's ask "ALOHA".indexOf("l"), -1.
So the answer to the question, is it case
sensitive, is, sure is, yes, indeed.
Characters like A and
lower case a are separate.
JavaScript doesn't even necessarily,
well, it does kind of know that they're
somehow related, but
it sees them as different things.
But in some cases,
like if I ask for a lowercase q,
that's not in the string either, so
it might give us the same result.
Now, strings since they're made
up of multiple characters,
means that they can contain
shorter strings within them.
So for example, our word ALOHA
also has the word HA [LAUGH].
Like you're making a really
ridiculous statement, and I'm saying,
ha, negative indices,
what a concept, right?
So we can ask JavaScript whether or
not a string includes another
string using this spell, includes.
So this is a question that we're asking,
dear JavaScript,
does the string ALOHA
include the string HA?
JavaScript is gonna
respond with an answer.
This is a little question, what type
of answer is JavaScript gonna give me?
What type of value do
you think this returns?
>> Boolean?
>> Boolean, nice guess, true or false.
It's a yes or no question, right?
This string either does or
does not contain this other string.
So we're gonna get a Boolean out
from includes, that tells us,
yes, true, this string includes
that other string, or false.
So in this case, we would expect what
value for "ALOHA".includes("HA")?
True, yes, there is HA in there.
And likewise if I asked,
does ALOHA include LOL?
No, almost, but no.
Almost doesn't count in JavaScript,
[LAUGH] only in horseshoes and
hand grenades.
So the includes spell here is something
we can ask of a string that gets
a Boolean yes or no value of whether or
not some other substring is part of it.
Similarly, or
sort of as a more specific case,
we can also ask whether a string
begins with some other string.
Anybody happen to know the spell or
the question or
the name of the thing that
I could ask JavaScript?
If we had includes is what tells me
whether or not a string includes another
string, I wanna find out whether this
string starts with some other string.
I can ask.
>> Like a left.
>> Does it start with this thing?
So startsWith is this
spell we can use here.
Yeah, this is just trivia in case
you've already seen this before.
So startsWith is another
question I can ask of a string
that similarly is gonna
return a value of what type?
Boolean, yes or no, true or false.
So if I ask "ALOHA".startsWith("AL")?
True.
"ALOHA".startsWith("HA"), False.
So these are some fun little [LAUGH]
questions we can ask JavaScript.
Now, it seems kind of trivial with
a short string like ALOHA, what have you.
But this can end up being quite
useful when you end up working with
a more complex program that
maybe has to manipulate text or
you wanna be checking the value for
certain strings.
Some of these spells are gonna come in
handy as you're working with strings.
Okay, now, if we know that strings
can contain other strings,
then that means we can also ask for
an index not just of a single character,
but of an entire substring.
And we can actually use our good
friend indexOf with a longer string,
a substring instead of
just a single character.
So earlier we saw "ALOHA".indexOf("H"),
let's say,
or index of A, or
whatever individual character.
We can also ask for
the index of a substring, so
another string that has
multiple characters.
So what do you think
this is going to give us?
Let's go back to our drawing of
the indices related to the string.
What do you think "ALOHA".indexOf("HA")
is going to tell me?
The question is, where does the substring
HA begin in the string ALOHA?
>> 3.
>> So I heard the guess 3.
I see some nodding.
I can't see if the chat is nodding,
but I'm just gonna feel the nods.
[LAUGH] All right, let's
>> There's 3s the chat
>> There's 3s in the chat.
Let's double-check.
Indeed, it does.
And this is why,
to go back to our drawing,
I said that sometimes it's helpful
to think about these indices not as
corresponding to a particular character,
as in the green numbers at the top here,
but to a particular
position in the string.
So both the character H and
the substring HA
begins at position 3, if that makes sense.
How about "ALOHA"indexOf("LOL")?
Now, we already asked if ALOHA includes
LOL, and JavaScript said, false.
So what do you think index
of LOL is going to give us?
Any guesses?
>> -1.
>> I heard -1.
Let's find out.
Boom, yes.
So same rules as for a character
that doesn't exist in the string.
Even though we have an L and
an O in ALOHA,
the substring LOL does not exist,
so the whole thing returns -1.
Cool?
So cool.
We know numbers corresponding
to things inside of a string.
All right,
what else can we do with strings?
How about we add them together?
[LAUGH] So the plus, plus is a thing
we're gonna talk about later.
Plus can be used to
connect strings together.
If I use a + on "ALOHA" + "!",
this is going
to give me a combined string
that sort of smooches
the two strings together
into a new string that has
both of them,
just one right after the other.
So "ALOHA" + "!" is ALOHA!,
more enthusiastically.
[LAUGH] So this is something we're
gonna come back to a little bit later
when we talk about operators.
But plus is an operator
that works on strings to,
you can also hear the word
concatenate strings together,
meaning, squish them together.
But why am I yelling so much?
Why is there so much yelling?
And of the Schitt's Creek ladies want
to know why I'm raising my voice.
And so there's another fun tricks
that strings can do, which is,
they have a spell called toLowerCase.
"ALOHA".toLowerCase is going to give me,
any guesses?
>> Lowercase aloha.
aloha, exactly, [LAUGH] so we said earlier
that JavaScript sees the character
capital A and the character lowercase
a as different characters, that is true.
But it does kind of know a little bit
about the correspondence between lowercase
and uppercase characters.
So there is a method or
a spell, an invocation,
I can ask JavaScript to give me
the lowercase version of a string
by calling string.toLowerCase,
and then parentheses.